---
title: What is IIFE?
tags:
  - javascript
date: 2020-11-14
---

You might have heard of IIFE if you've been dabbling with JavaScript for a little while. You might have used it in a `javascript:` bookmarklet, or maybe you've used a bundler such as [Rollup](https://rollupjs.org/) that exports to IIFE.

So what even _is_ IIFE?

**Immediately Invoked Function Expressions (IIFE)** is a format for JavaScript that runs code inside a container shell of a **function** that runs **immediately** after its expression. The basic format is like this:

```jsx
(() => {
  "use strict";
  // Your wonderful JavaScript code inside
})();
```

But why do you need the wrapper of a function? Can't you just put the code just _as is_ inside?

## Bookmarklets

**Bookmarklets** are little snippets of JavaScript code that you can put in your bookmarks bar with a `javascript:` prefix before it so that it can run normally. It;s a wonderful little feature of browsers.

But... Take an example of setting `document.designMode` to `true`. When you do that in a bookmarklet, it would become problematic because browsers automatically write the returned value **to the document**, which is not ideal since many JavaScript expressions do return values inadvertently.

{% respimg 'images/designMode.png', 'Example of using document.designMode' %}

When you wrap all of that in an **IIFE**, however, the return value is contained inside the IIFE, and the returnn value will only be the return value of the IIFE itself, which is empty air.

Nice. But that's not the main reason why people use IIFEs in websites. The most important reason is...

## Closures

A **closure** is the combination of a function bundled together (enclosed) with references to its surrounding state (the lexical environment).

In JavaScript, closures are created every time a function is created, at function creation time. Which means that you get a separate closure when you run an IIFE.

That in turn means that the variables that you define inside your code, using `let`, `const`, or `var`, will all be scoped just to the code block of the IIFE. `let` and `const` are **block-scoped**, meaning that they'll be containned in any block (including `function`), and `var` is **function- or global-scoped**, which here means that it will be contained innside the IIFE, which is a function. This can extremely useful for browser ennviroments, in which you might wannt scripts to run independently without interefering with each other.

## Conclusion

Please use **IIFEs** whenn you want to contain variables into a script (e.g. a browser context, runninng lots of `<script>`s on a single page or omit the return value in order to prevent annoying browser behavior.

That's all for this article - thanks for reading!
